>> Speaker 1: Let's say we're
building a file or folder picker.
We've got like a checkbox that represents
a folder and checking that should
make it look like we've selected
all the files in that folder too.
>> Steve Kinney: Okay, all right.
>> Speaker 1: Can we have a folder
with a couple files in it?
>> Steve Kinney: Yep.
>> Speaker 1: And then a file that's
the sibling of the folder and
see how close we can get to sort of.
I'll leave you to
interpret what that means.
>> Speaker 3: Modify a tree.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
I'm saying I want the visual appearance
that children are selected
even though they.
Might not be.
>> Steve Kinney: Hidden feature
of this repo is you can do
npm run create, let's call it filetree.
>> Speaker 1: We're
making a new component.
>> Steve Kinney: Rather than, yeah.
So now I should have a FileTree
folder in here if you
want to play around with other
stuff in a little safe space.
I made that for you.
Cool.
So we've got this Hello FileTree!
The challenge was we want to have some
kind of folder file hierarchy here.
Let's just pull that up in here as well.
And I told Mark we're doing good on time.
No, this is good.
I love this bottom.
Do you see it?
It's on the bottom.
Yeah.
Why is it on the bottom?
That's not how.
Whatever.
I don't make the rules around here.
Cool, cool, cool.
So we've got our file tree.
So what I'm thinking is we make
a section and we'll have the,
>> Steve Kinney: Let's just say that
the label is whatever kind
of folder that we had.
Input type checkbox.
We'll give this an idea folder.
Just not be total id="folder".
And we'll say this is for.
>> Steve Kinney: Save that, okay.
We want that other order.
And then we're going
to say that we've got.
These will be their children.
So we'll give it.
You could argue it should
be unordered list.
Let's not work.
Yeah.
Okay, fine.
And we're going to say the thing is like,
we can't make them checked, right.
We can style them as if they are.
>> Speaker 1: Let's say that there's
some back-end that's gonna regard
the selection of that folder as-
>> Steve Kinney: Yep,
that-
>> Speaker 1: So
we just want the visual appearance that
the children are checked when you check
the parent.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, all right,
yeah, the big question is,
can we actually check the box?
We do something, right?
And this is where you a lot of times,
in bigger apps,
you will see the questionable pattern.
Anytime you see that toggle switch, that's
a checkbox where the checkbox is hidden.
And an SVG moves some stuff around, right?
Like that's, you know,
that's where you see stuff like that.
But we'll get to something that
gets us most of the the way there.
>> Speaker 1: I would even take an example
that has like a hidden check checkbox or
something that's conditionally presented.
>> Steve Kinney: I'm not having SVG.
But we'll figure out,
well spiritually versus we'll do
the version that does not have me
live coding SVG in front of you.
That's, you know.
Let's start.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
you can make all the files not selectable.
That'd be one.
And also gray and italics is a-
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, well, yeah,
we'll figure out.
We'll figure out something.
>> Speaker 1: Even disabling them would
make sense regardless of their check
the state recently.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
and I won't even do any.
I don't need stick up a lot of real
estate for something I'm not using.
And I could theoretically even
do a snippet and spelled.
I'm not gonna do any of that.
So we'll grab this and we're gonna say,
>> Steve Kinney: Again,
in an actual component system that would
be its own component, so on and so forth.
But we're not doing that right now.
We'll say this is file, file, file and
we'll give this just some
visual hierarchy here.
We'll say this has got
a margin left of that.
Nine's not number.
No, [CROSSTALK].
>> Speaker 1: Maybe the UL element.
>> Steve Kinney: Are we not
refreshing what's going on or
do I just don't understand how
anything works all of a sudden?
We'll cheat.
Everyone should have a favorite
color that they use to figure out
if anything's working.
>> Speaker 1: If you don't make your
body background lime green to see
if refreshes aren't working.
I don't know what kind
of CSS you're writing.
>> Steve Kinney: Give me
a second to figure out if
I shut down the server accidentally or
something real dumb.
>> Speaker 1: Do we want to inspect
the HTML to see if that class seems
to be applied?
I don't know.
You're the tailwind expert, but.
>> Steve Kinney: Well, yeah, these four
errors here, are not giving me a lot of.
>> Speaker 1: Well.
>> Steve Kinney: [LAUGH] All right,
that makes sense.
We were so focused on so focus on
the CSS we didn't stop to think about.
Didn't solve our issue, but
we did solve that problem.
Yeah, let's inspect.
My God, all my controls are so big.
>> Speaker 1: Well,
that's a recent change, file-1.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: I have a theory.
The oldest theory in the book.
>> Steve Kinney: Did adding brand new
files that vite was not aware of mes,
literally, end up with the type-stripping
thing that we were talking about.
[LAUGH] Adding a brand new file.
I had to turn the server off and
turn it back on.
Okay.
Today we learned.
Cool, well, we also fixed some ID stuff
because they would have all been checked
at the same time.
And it looked like I did magic that
wasn't really accurate or true.
So that's good.
Now I shouldn't have
to restart the server.
I think it was unaware to even
read those files as it went along.
Okay, cool, cool, cool, so,
All right, now we have something that
looks a little bit like a file tree.
Okay, so we wanna say.
So I might have to change some
of the structure here as well.
But let's think about it for a moment.
In fact, one would argue
do I need that extra div or
can I just do the UL in this case?
These could all be.
Yeah, that feels better.
Okay, so there are a bunch of things
you can do as I think through this.
So I want to say basically when
this first checkbox is checked,
all of the rest of them, right?
>> Steve Kinney: So
these need to ask up to the parent.
But again, just going for
a checkbox is not going to get
me all the way there, right?
Let's see, we'll make this.
In fact, I don't even need
that div probably either.
Put it back if I need it.
But just a less is more kind of thing.
Okay, so if the parent is checked or
actually the first thing I would try,
let's see if it works, is to say this
is up here and to say peer checked.
Let's do something simple like opacity 50.
Now this is weird.
So what we might then do
is do pointer events.
None.
>> Steve Kinney: So
now you can't click these.
Yeah, we might have to do something
visual with the box at that point.
Cause you can't like make like
you can do like an icon or SVG or
something like that, you know.
But like theoretically you can't
like check the actual box.
That's why a lot of times
you'll see those other things,
you get some programmatic control.
>> Speaker 1: But yeah,
this looks like magic to me.
Piercing is really cool.
What if you have more than
one of these on a page?
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
I mean at that point what I would probably
do is just kind of use a little
bit of hierarchy, right?
So if we did this,
I'm gonna get yelled out for the IDs.
Deal with that in a second.
Right, and we'll give this one.
At Least let's give at
least the folders new IDs.
So then theoretically you could do that.
Right.
Just by using the divs to
kind of section it off.
>> Speaker 1: Can you just explain
more about what does pure mean when we
use this tailwind class?
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: What are we saying?
>> Steve Kinney: So
effectively what's happening is this.
We're saying, hey,
the squiggly, the tilde, is to say,
I came after an element
with this selector.
So if you are one where previously
there is a peer check and
you are one after that,
then this applies to you, right?
It's hard to explain the squiggly and
the star.
The star is the current one and
we're saying if this matches where before
me there was a peer that was checked.
Squiggly line me, I am disabled, right?
Or pointer events.
I'm the illusion of disabled.
There are some serious questions here that
we'd have to think through about Aria
tags and actually the semantic meeting.
Not totally sure you'd get away without
JavaScript just simply for accessibility.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Steve Kinney: Right,
visually you can totally do it.
But in CSS we really only have
access to visually, right?
And so it's just a little bit trickier
when we think about accessibility and
screen readers and stuff like that.
That point JavaScript
probably does show up.
But yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Thanks, this is great.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Further than I thought
we could get without JavaScript.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
it's like one of the things, like I said,
you will be going on a walk
a week from now and be like,
I could just not write all those little
use states or whatever to do this.
I can basically, especially if it is stuff
about like that is visual in this case, so
on and so forth.
Cool.
There is kind of another tangentially
related one that I want to tackle
that is a little tricky as well,
which, which is the pattern.
A lot of times you see this in messaging
apps where what looks like an input field,
but the submit button is inside
the field where you can send
the message inside something
along those lines,
which can also take advantage
of a lot of this as well.